If you drop a slinky
dangling under its own weight,
the bottom won't start falling
until the whole slinky has collapsed.
This is because
each coil is stretched
to support the weight
of everything beneath it.
So in order for one coil to fall,
it needs the coil above it to collapse
and so on all the way up to the top.
It's like a row of dominoes
where the tension released at the top
cascades down the slinky
and this takes some time.
This is the longest slinky I had access to
and what's cool about this angle
is you can see the bottom starts to rotate
right there.
Meaning there is a twisting wave
that travels through the slinky
faster than the compression wave.
The bottom is turning
but still not falling
until the top crashes into it.